# Running ShiftLeft Protect

Running ShiftLeft Protect is different for Java or .NET Framework applications. Before using ShiftLeft Protect, make sure you have met all [product requirements](../../introduction/requirements.md). 

## Running ShiftLeft Protect for Java Applications

For Java applications, the required ShiftLeft Inspect code analysis can be performed either as a [separate step before runtime](../inspect/analyzing-applications.md), or as part of the process of running ShiftLeft Protect. 
When you analyze your code as part of the process of running ShiftLeft Protect, ShiftLeft first submits your application to the cloud for analysis and waits for the analysis to finish before starting ShiftLeft Protect, which may take a few minutes.

In order to run your application with ShiftLeft Protect, prefix the command line to start your application with `sl run`, specifically

```
sl run \
  --app <name>\
  --analyze target/<jar> \
  -- java -jar target/<delimits flags>
```

where

`--app <name>` specifies a unique name for your application.

`--analyze <jar>` points the ShiftLeft CLI (i.e. `sl`) at your application's JAR so that the application is analyzed before starting up.

`-- <delimits flags>` from the command to be wrapped. This is the command used to run ShiftLeft Protect.

Once your application is running with ShiftLeft Protect, activity is shown on the ShiftLeft Dashboard.

For additional information, refer to [Configuring the ShiftLeft Protect Microagent for Java](../protect/protect-java/configuring-the-microagent.md).

## Running ShiftLeft Protect for .NET Framework Applications

For .NET Framework 64-bit applications, the required ShiftLeft Inspect code analysis must be performed as a [separate step before running ShiftLeft Protect](../inspect/analyzing-applications.md). In addition, make sure you are running on a Windows operating system that has at least .NET Framework Runtime 4.5 installed. 

If you are running ShiftLeft Protect with Internet Information Services (IIS), first copy the `shiftleft.json` file (that was generated by ShiftLeft Inspect during analysis) into the `C:\shiftleftDotNetAgent\spr` directory. You can then start sending requests to your application in the usual manner (e.g., through a browser or a script). The ShiftLeft Protect Microagent is activated once your application receives its first request.

If you are running ShiftLeft Protect with IIS Express, start the application through the ShiftLeft CLI as follows:

```
"C:\Program Files\Shiftleft\sl.exe" run --csharp "C:\Program Files\IIS Express\iisexpress.exe" <full path to the project location>
```
You can then send requests to the target application using using the method of your choice, such as a browser or a utility like curl. For IIS Express, your application runs on port 8500, for example curl http://<span></span>localhost:8500/vulnerable_asp_net_framework.
