# Analyzing Applications using ShiftLeft Inspect

You use the ShiftLeft Command Line Interface (CLI) [`sl analyze` command and options](../using-cli/cli-reference.md) to submit applications to ShiftLeft Inspect for code analysis and security profiling.

If you are using ShiftLeft Inspect with ShiftLeft Protect, you can analyze your code before running your application, for example to integrate with a build / Continuous Integration (CI) environment. To do so, you must integrate the [ShiftLeft JSON file](../protect/json-file.md) generated by ShiftLeft Inspect and including parameters required by the ShiftLeft Protect Microagent to customize the monitoring and securing of your application, into your runtime environment and make it available to ShiftLeft Protect. The ShiftLeft JSON file by default is located in the directory from which you run the analysis.

The ShiftLeft Inspect analysis commands are different depending on whether your application is written in:

* [Java and Scala](analyze-java.md)
* [C#](analyze-csharp.md)

## Analysis Workflow

1. Review the [ShiftLeft Inspect requirements](../../introduction/requirements.md#requirements-for-shiftleft-inspect).
2. [Install the CLI](../using-cli/install-cli.md) on the host from where you submit applications for analysis.
3. For Java and Scala applications, successfully build the application using a supported build tool (maven, gradle, sbt) **before** you submit the application to ShiftLeft Inspect for analysis. 

   For C# applications, restore dependencies and project-specific tools. Use `dotnet restore` for applications based on .NET Core; use `nuget restore` for .NET Framework. 
4. Submit the application for analysis using the appropriate analysis command and options, including [CPG mode](#cpg-mode).
5. For each code commit, rebuild the application and resubmit it for analysis. You can automate this process by integrating the ShiftLeft CLI with a CI/CD build system, for example with [Jenkins](../integrating-with-shiftleft/integrating-jenkins-builds/integrating-jenkins-builds.md), [GoCD](../integrating-with-shiftleft/integrating-gocd-builds.md), [Bamboo](../integrating-with-shiftleft/integrating-bamboo-builds.md), [TeamCity](../integrating-with-shiftleft/integrating-teamcity-builds.md), [Travis](../integrating-with-shiftleft/integrating-travis-builds.md) and CircleCI.

## CPG Mode

The CPG mode can be used optionally for [analyzing Java and Scala applications](analyze-java.md), and is automatically implied for [analyzing C# applications](analyze-csharp.md). This mode builds the CPG locally (on your machine) and then uploads the CPG, rather than your application's code, to the ShiftLeft cloud for analysis. 

Include the option 

```
--cpg
```

in the `sl analyze` command. For example `sl analyze --app <name> --java --cpg <path>'.
