# ShiftLeft July 2019 Updates

* **Scala Support Added for all ShiftLeft Products (Beta Version)**. You can now use ShiftLeft Inspect, ShiftLeft Protect and ShiftLeft Ocular to analyze, secure and examine your Scala applications for vulnerabilities and data leakage. 

## ShiftLeft Ocular

* **Additional Documentation**. ShiftLeft Ocular documentation has been expanded. There isn now information on

* Understanding and Using ShiftLeft Ocular:
   * [Memory Size Requirements](../using-ocular/getting-started/ocular-memory-size.md)
   * [Creating the CPG](../using-ocular/getting-started/create-cpg.md)
   * [Working with CPGs](../using-ocular/getting-started/working-with-cpg.md)
   * [Technical Deep-Dive: The CPG](../using-ocular/getting-started/cpg-deep-dive.md)
* Common Queries. Content is available on the most commonly used queries to analyze:
   * [Data Flows](../using-ocular/common-queries/data-flows.md)
   * [Dependencies](../using-ocular/common-queries/dependency-analysis.md)
   * [Methods](../using-ocular/common-queries/methods-analyze.md)
   * [Method Parameters](../using-ocular/common-queries/parameters-analyze.md)
   * [Types and Packages](../using-ocular/common-queries/types-packages-analysis.md)
* Use Cases
* Tutorials

     ```
     INFO heap usage (after GC) was 0.87 -> scheduled to clear 100000 references (asynchronously)
     INFO attempting to clear 100000 references
     ```
     The result is that larger CPGs are now supported, though at a performance cost. 
 
* **Recommendations on Memory Size**. (Introduced in ShiftLeft Ocular version 0.3.41) ShiftLeft Ocular now displays information on the amount of memory needed to create or load a CPG, allowing you to [optimize performance for large applications](../using-ocular/ocular-memory-size.md), instead of defaulting to disk overflow. For example

     ```
     ocular> createCpg("someBigApp.jar")
 
     ocular> The cpg.bin.zip you are loading is 63MB on disk and requires approximately 12712MB heap, 
     but the current maximum heap size is 455MB. It is suggested that you provide a larger 
     `-J-Xmx` setting, e.g. `ocular.sh `-J-Xmx14g` to ensure that your machine has sufficient 
     free physical memory available. Otherwise, disk overflow is automatically enabled, 
     slowing performance.
    ```
    
* **Common Queries**. The ShiftLeft Ocular documentation has been improved with information on the most common queries:

   - [Analyzing Dependencies](../using-ocular/common-queries/dependency-analysis.md)
   - [Analyzing Types and Packages](../using-ocular/common-queries/types-packages-analysis.md)
   - [Analyzing Method Parameters](../using-ocular/common-queries/parameters-analyze.md)
   - [Analyzing Methods](../using-ocular/common-queries/methods-analyze.md)
   - [Uncovering Data Flows](../using-ocular/common-queries/data-flows.md)

## ShiftLeft Protect 

* **ShiftLeft Protect Event Viewer**. From the [Vulnerabilities Dashboard](../using-inspect-protect/using-workflow/vulnerability-dashboard.md#event-details), you can now view details on a sampling of security events for a vulnerability. This includes information on an event's headers, payloads, request origin, and whether the event was blocked by ShiftLeft Protect.  Such information can help you in remediation, to make precise code fixes and to determine the extent of an attack. 

     Note that by default the Event Viewer only displays an event count summary. In order to include the full payloads of attack events, you must turn on the Protect configuration item [sec.collect.attack.info](../using-inspect-protect/protect-java/configuring-the-microagent.md#collect-attack-information). User opt-in is required because collected event information collected potentially sensitive, and consumes more network resources to transmit that data to the ShiftLeft infrastructure.
